cohen had personal interest in the updated version of hammer , but heffron has none . 
he shot the movie quickly and clumsily , and although some scenes ring true , most of them are flat , trite , and invariably dull . 
the movie features numerous car chases , shoot-outs , and stunts , but heffron's background in television is the dominant tone ; despite the graphic violence and full-frontal nudity , " i , the jury , " takes on the air of a made-for-tv quickie , with no real punch or depth . 
but the problems in " i , the jury " run deeper than the technical . 
the central fault in this updating is mike hammer , whose character was lost in the shuffle while updating from the fifties to the eighties . 
because spillane wrote all his hammer mysteries in the first person , hammer's character is central to the tale because all the events are filtered through his persona . 
we never really get that impression in the movie -- there is no first-person voice-over narration and some scenes don't have hammer in them at all . 
consequently , a great deal of the texture of spillane's storytelling is lost . 
the period updating turns out to be a detrimentally bad idea because much of hammer's moral code is thrown to the wind . 
despite his characterization as a hard-nosed , violent , misogynistic killer , hammer always stuck fervently to his own moral code . 
the title itself , " i , the jury , " refers to his anti-establishment notion of being his own law . 
unlike private eyes who seek out the bad guys and then turn them over the police , hammer both pursues the criminal and exacts the punishment . 
in this way , he can be seen as " above the law , " but he still adheres strictly to her own personal code of conduct , his own morality . 
the movie forgoes that aspect of his character , and hammer comes off not only as amoral in society's terms , but in any terms , especially his own . 
if anything , hammer always had his professionalism , but the movie does away with that in the first three minutes by showing him rolling in the sack with the wife of a client who had paid him to find out if that wife was being unfaithful . 
maybe the scene was intended for laughs , but it only cheapens hammer's character and is , by all accounts , a lousy way to start the movie . 
the blame for hammer's character can't be laid on assante's shoulders , because despite some unnecessary marlon brandon-like mumbling , he delivers a fine performance . 
spillane never once described hammer's physical attributes in any of the dozen books in which he appeared , so any actor could conceivably portray him . 
of course , because of the lack of written description , those who have read spillane's books will have a strong personal notion of what hammer looks like , and therefore almost any screen incarnation will somehow fall short of expectations ( spillane , who played the character himself in 1963's " the girl hunters , " is generally considered the best of the film hammers ) . 
the rest of actors are most un-noteworthy. 